$Id$
$Source$

A user's guide to cl-irc.  The user is thought of as a Common Lisp
programmer using the library in his own code.

  Introduction to IRC

    If you haven't already, now is probably a good time to read the
    relevant RFCs (distributed with this software).  You certainly
    don't have to but it will help your understanding of the domain.
    RFC2810 is a short text on the architecture of the protocols.

  About this library

    cl-irc is an implementation of the client-side protocol.
    It is not impossible to add the server-side but it has simple not
    been done yet (and the current authors have no plans of doing so,
    although patches are certainly welcome).

    Here's the basic idea: You tell the library to connect to an IRC
    server; it gives you a connection object in return.  You call
    `read-message-loop' which reads messages from the server.  For
    each message that is received, it is parsed and the library tries
    to find a hook to apply to the message (see ``Hooks'') and if
    successful the hook will be called with the message as its single
    argument.  You customize the library via the hooks.

  Multiple connections

    The library has been designed in such a way that all state is
    centered around the connection object.  As such, multiple,
    instances are perfectly feasible and there is no global state the
    user needs to worry about.

  Hooks

    The following operators are available to help dealing with hooks:

      - get-hooks
      - remove-hooks
      - add-hook
      - remove-hook

    Register your operator (must accept one argument which will be a
    message object) with `add-hook' and it will be called the next
    time the library receives a message for your connection.

  An example

    * (require :cl-irc)

    * (in-package :irc)

    * (setf connection (connect :nickname "mynick"
                                :server "irc.somewhere.org"))

    * (read-message-loop connection)

    ^C [snip implementation signaling condition]

    * (join connection "#lisp")

    * (read-message-loop connection)

    After this you might wish to exit the loop again and poke at the
    connection object.  As mentioned, the library by default keeps
    your connection object current with regards to users
    leaving/joining channels, topics changing, etc.

  The future

    A multiprocessing interface to the blocking calls would be nice.

  Feedback

    Please direct any feedback to cl-irc-devel@common-lisp.net
